[docs] fixes to sql-scalar.md (#16826)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql-scalar.md

|`LOG10(expr)`|Logarithm (base 10).|
|`POWER(expr, power)`|`expr` raised to the power of `power`.|
|`SQRT(expr)`|Square root.|

> |`TRUNCATE(expr[, digits])`|Truncate `expr` to a specific number of decimal digits. If digits is negative, then this truncates that many places to the left of the decimal point. Digits defaults to zero if not specified.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TRUNCATE(expr[, digits])`|Truncate `expr` to a specific number of decimal digits. If `digits` is negative, then this truncates that many places to the left of the decimal point. If not specified, `digits` defaults to zero.|
```

|`TRUNC(expr[, digits])`|Alias for `TRUNCATE`.|

> |`ROUND(expr[, digits])`|`ROUND(x, y)` would return the value of the x rounded to the y decimal places. While x can be an integer or floating-point number, y must be an integer. The type of the return value is specified by that of x. y defaults to 0 if omitted. When y is negative, x is rounded on the left side of the y decimal points. If `expr` evaluates to either `NaN`, `expr` will be converted to 0. If `expr` is infinity, `expr` will be converted to the nearest finite double. |

Reviewer: The use of both `ROUND(expr[, digits])` and `ROUND(x, y)` is confusing. Pick one and update the description accordingly.

Reviewer: Also, avoid using "would".

|`BITWISE_SHIFT_RIGHT(expr1, expr2)`|Returns the result of `expr1 >> expr2`. Double values will be implicitly cast to longs, use `BITWISE_CONVERT_DOUBLE_TO_LONG_BITS` to perform bitwise operations directly with doubles.|
|`BITWISE_XOR(expr1, expr2)`|Returns the result of `expr1 ^ expr2`. Double values will be implicitly cast to longs, use `BITWISE_CONVERT_DOUBLE_TO_LONG_BITS` to perform bitwise operations directly with doubles.|
|`DIV(x, y)`|Returns the result of integer division of x by y |

> |`HUMAN_READABLE_BINARY_BYTE_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable [IEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix) format. For example, HUMAN_READABLE_BINARY_BYTE_FORMAT(1048576) returns `1.00 MiB`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]` (default: 2). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`HUMAN_READABLE_BINARY_BYTE_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable [IEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix) format. For example, `HUMAN_READABLE_BINARY_BYTE_FORMAT(1048576)` returns `1.00 MiB`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]`. If not specified,  `precision` defaults to 2. |
```

> |`HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_BYTE_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix) format. HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_BYTE_FORMAT(1048576) returns `1.04 MB`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]` (default: 2). `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]` (default: 2). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_BYTE_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix) format. For example, `HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_BYTE_FORMAT(1048576)` returns `1.04 MB`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]`. If not specified, `precision` defaults to 2. |
```

> |`HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable SI format. For example, HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_FORMAT(1048576) returns `1.04 M`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]` (default: 2). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_FORMAT(value[, precision])`| Format a number in human-readable [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix) format. For example, `HUMAN_READABLE_DECIMAL_FORMAT(1048576)` returns `1.04 M`. `precision` must be in the range of `[0, 3]`. If not specified, `precision` defaults to 2. |
```

|`SAFE_DIVIDE(x, y)`|Returns the division of x by y guarded on division by 0. In case y is 0 it returns 0, or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` |

## String functions

String functions accept strings and return a type appropriate to the function.

|Function|Notes|
|--------|-----|
|`CONCAT(expr[, expr, ...])`|Concatenates a list of expressions. Also see the [concatenation operator](sql-operators.md#concatenation-operator).|
|`TEXTCAT(expr, expr)`|Concatenates two expressions.|
|`CONTAINS_STRING(expr, str)`|Returns true if the `str` is a substring of `expr`.|
|`ICONTAINS_STRING(expr, str)`|Returns true if the `str` is a substring of `expr`. The match is case-insensitive.|
|`DECODE_BASE64_UTF8(expr)`|Decodes a Base64-encoded string into a UTF-8 encoded string.|
|`LEFT(expr, length)`|Returns the leftmost `length` characters from `expr`, where `length` is an integer. |

> |`RIGHT(expr, length)`|Returns the rightmost ``length`` characters from `expr`, where `length` is an integer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`RIGHT(expr, length)`|Returns the rightmost `length` characters from `expr`, where `length` is an integer. |
```

|`LENGTH(expr)`|Length of `expr` in UTF-16 code units.|
|`CHAR_LENGTH(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|
|`CHARACTER_LENGTH(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|
|`STRLEN(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|

> |`LOOKUP(expr, lookupName[, replaceMissingValueWith])`|Look up `expr` in a registered [query-time lookup table](lookups.md) named `lookupName`. The optional constant `replaceMissingValueWith`, if provided, is returned when the `expr` is null or when the lookup does not contain a value for `expr`.<br /><br />Lookups can also be queried directly using the [`lookup` schema](sql.md#from).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`LOOKUP(expr, lookupName[, replaceMissingValueWith])`|Look up `expr` in a registered [query-time lookup table](lookups.md) named `lookupName`. If provided, the optional constant `replaceMissingValueWith` is returned when the `expr` is null or when the lookup does not contain a value for `expr`.<br /><br />You can query lookups directly using the [`lookup` schema](sql.md#from).|
```
Is there a different verb we can use to describe this function? The first sentence is hard to read/comprehend: "Look up `expr` in a registered query-time lookup table named `lookupName`."

Author: Have not had the chance to work with LOOKUP in this context, will get back to you if I can think of a better verb

|`LOWER(expr)`|Returns `expr` in all lowercase.|
|`UPPER(expr)`|Returns `expr` in all uppercase.|

> |`LPAD(expr, length[, chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` left-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result will be null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added, however `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`LPAD(expr, length[, chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` left-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result is null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added; however, `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|
```

> |`RPAD(expr, length[, chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` right-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result will be null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added, however `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`RPAD(expr, length[, chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` right-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result is null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added; however, `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|
```

> |`PARSE_LONG(string[, radix])`|Parses a string into a long (BIGINT) with the given radix, or 10 (decimal) if a radix is not provided.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`PARSE_LONG(string[, radix])`|Parses a string into a long (BIGINT) with the given radix or 10 (decimal) if a radix is not provided.|
```

> |`POSITION(substring IN expr [FROM startingIndex])`|Returns the index of `substring` within `expr`, with indexes starting from 1. The search begins at `startingIndex`, if `startingIndex` is not specified, the default is 1. If `substring` is not found, returns 0.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`POSITION(substring IN expr [FROM startingIndex])`|Returns the index of `substring` within `expr` with indexes starting from 1. The search begins at `startingIndex`. If `startingIndex` is not specified, the default is 1. If `substring` is not found, returns 0.|
```

> |`REGEXP_EXTRACT(expr, pattern[, index])`|Apply regular expression `pattern` to `expr` and extract a capture group, or `NULL` if there is no match. If index is unspecified or zero, returns the first substring that matched the pattern. The pattern may match anywhere inside `expr`; if you want to match the entire string instead, use the `^` and `$` markers at the start and end of your pattern. Note: when `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull = true`, it is not possible to differentiate an empty-string match from a non-match (both will return `NULL`).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`REGEXP_EXTRACT(expr, pattern[, index])`|Apply regular expression `pattern` to `expr` and extract a capture group or `NULL` if there is no match. If `index` is unspecified or zero, returns the first substring that matched the pattern. The pattern may match anywhere inside `expr`. To match the entire string, use the `^` and `$` markers at the start and end of your pattern. When `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull = true`, it is not possible to differentiate an empty-string match from a non-match (both return `NULL`).|
```

|`REGEXP_LIKE(expr, pattern)`|Returns whether `expr` matches regular expression `pattern`. The pattern may match anywhere inside `expr`; if you want to match the entire string instead, use the `^` and `$` markers at the start and end of your pattern. Similar to [`LIKE`](sql-operators.md#logical-operators), but uses regexps instead of LIKE patterns. Especially useful in WHERE clauses.|
|`REGEXP_REPLACE(expr, pattern, replacement)`|Replaces all occurrences of regular expression `pattern` within `expr` with `replacement`. The replacement string may refer to capture groups using `$1`, `$2`, etc. The pattern may match anywhere inside `expr`; if you want to match the entire string instead, use the `^` and `$` markers at the start and end of your pattern.|
|`REPLACE(expr, pattern, replacement)`|Replaces pattern with replacement in `expr`, and returns the result.|

> |`REPEAT(expr, N)`|Repeats `expr` _N_ times.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`REPEAT(expr, N)`|Repeats `expr` `N` times.|
```

Author: Will change to `N` but note @vtlim suggested `_N_` in this comment: https://github.com/apache/druid/pull/16826#discussion_r1700791136

Style guide: "Use italics to draw attention to a specific word such as when defining terms. Do so sparingly and only when necessary." N is not being defined so I agree with using `N` instead

> |`REPEAT(expr, N)`|Repeats `expr` N times.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`REPEAT(expr, N)`|Repeats `expr` _N_ times.|
```

|`REVERSE(expr)`|Reverses `expr`.|
|`STRING_FORMAT(pattern[, args...])`|Returns a string formatted in the manner of Java's [String.format](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#format-java.lang.String-java.lang.Object...-).|
|`STRPOS(haystack, needle)`|Returns the index of `needle` within `haystack`, with indexes starting from 1. If `needle` is not found, returns 0.|

> |`SUBSTRING(expr, index[, length])`|Returns a substring of `expr` starting at index, with a max length, both measured in UTF-16 code units.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`SUBSTRING(expr, index[, length])`|Returns a substring of `expr` starting at `index`, with a max `length`, both measured in UTF-16 code units.|
```

## String functions

String functions accept strings and return a type appropriate to the function.

|Function|Notes|
|--------|-----|
|`CONCAT(expr, [expr, ...])`|Concatenates a list of expressions. Also see the [concatenation operator](sql-operators.md#concatenation-operator).|

> |`TEXTCAT(expr, expr)`| Concatenates two expressions.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`TEXTCAT(expr, expr)`|Concatenates two expressions.|
```

|Function|Notes|Default|
|--------|-----|-------|
|`DS_TUPLE_DOUBLES_METRICS_SUM_ESTIMATE(expr)`|Computes approximate sums of the values contained within a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md#estimated-metrics-values-for-each-column-of-arrayofdoublessketch) column which contains an array of double values as its Summary Object.

> |`DS_TUPLE_DOUBLES_INTERSECT(expr, ...[, nominalEntries])`|Returns an intersection of tuple sketches, where each input expression must return a tuple sketch which contains an array of double values as its Summary Object. The values contained in the Summary Objects are summed when combined. If the last value of the array is a numeric literal, Druid assumes that the value is an override parameter for [nominal entries](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md).|

Reviewer 2: Something about this notation seems off to me. Should `...` be in the square brackets too?

Author: Will address in later PR for the appropriate section

|`DS_TUPLE_DOUBLES_NOT(expr, ...[, nominalEntries])`|Returns a set difference of tuple sketches, where each input expression must return a tuple sketch which contains an array of double values as its Summary Object. The values contained in the Summary Object are preserved as is. If the last value of the array is a numeric literal, Druid assumes that the value is an override parameter for [nominal entries](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md).|

> |`DS_TUPLE_DOUBLES_UNION(expr, ...[, nominalEntries])`|Returns a union of tuple sketches, where each input expression must return a tuple sketch which contains an array of double values as its Summary Object. The values contained in the Summary Objects are summed when combined. If the last value of the array is a numeric literal, Druid assumes that the value is an override parameter for [nominal entries](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md).|

Reviewer 2: For these three lines, we should lowercase "summary object" since it's not a proper noun

Author: Will address in later PR for the appropriate section
